1.2 Data Approach and Results 
Firstly, I looked at all countries in the years 1960, 1980, 2000 and 2010, and plotted their GDP per capita against their latitudinal location. The R^2 values ranged from 0.14 to 0.17. There was no notable change over time with these graphs and so I have only listed 1980 (Figure 1). 
 I noticed that the points were too close together on the lower end of the GDP and that the overwhelming majority of the richest countries are in the north. This led to figures 1.2 and 1.3 respectively.
Figure 1.2 shows a better distribution and clearly displays the lack of correlation between latitudinal position and GDP per capita. It is clear in this scale when the outliers aren’t affecting the R^2 value as significantly, that the correlation is not a statistically significant one. 
But what stood out to me from Figure 1.1 was that from the 5000GDP point and upwards, almost all the countries were north of the equator (positive geo.lat). This led to my final analysis as seen in Figure 1.3. By grouping countries into their corresponding hemispheres and averaging their GDPs, the difference becomes more evident. 
1.3 Discussion
Yes, I think there is value in using the term ‘Global South’, however, that is not to say people should not continue to diligently investigate the unique economic situations from country to country south of the equator.
From Figure 1.3, the growth over time as well as the average GDPs are telling. The slope of each section is larger on the North line in comparison to the South line. This shows that absolute value of the average GDP in the north is higher and it also shows, perhaps more importantly, that growth is also more rapid in the north. However, we must acknowledge that the outliers are a huge part of the contrasting average GDPs and that the linear correlation would decrease significantly in slope if we were to remove the 15 richest countries on the graph. 
In future analysis, I would be interested in analyzing the correlation between the ‘Global South’ and other measures such as the Human Development Index. Also, I would be interested in inspecting a non-binary factor such as distance from equator rather than just north vs south. Furthermore, with an improved knowledge of statistics, I would be curious to see how much the richest companies are affecting the correlation. Perhaps after more analysis, I would be willing to support the discontinuation of using the term ‘Global South’. It may be harmful to continue to refer to such a large group of countries under one alias considering the distinction in the average GDP per capita is a result of just a few super-rich countries.